all right let's get more on the uh Al's
Hospital situation in Gaza we can speak
now to nabal fak who's a spokesperson
for the Palestine red crescent Society
joins us live now from rala uh Nebel
thank you for joining us here on aler I
know things are very busy to say the
least um so we have the situation where
Israel tells effectively 14,000 people
taking shelter at the hospital to
evacuate plus hundreds of patients plus
all the staff and doctors and so forth
uh we understand that they have stayed
put uh meanwhile we've just been
watching pictures of huge flares uh
erupting and lighting up the night sky
above the hospital there's been constant
bombardment around the hospital what are
your thoughts at this
moment so since the morning the
Palestine red crescent has received
serious threat from Israeli occupation
forces demanding immediate evacuation
for ALDS Hospital H because it is going
to be bombarded uh we have inside the
hospital around 500 patients many of
them are in the Intensive Care Unit
connected to life support machines as
well as oxygen there is a babies and
incubators and there is absolutely no
way to evacuate them safely we have
around 14,000 civilians most of them are
children and women who have suit Refugee
inside the the hospital because simply
they don't have anywhere uh to go after
Israel forced them to evacuate their
homes because of this intense
bombardment that is taking place all
over Gaza and the north that's why they
sought Refugee inside the hospital
thinking that they would be in a safe
place unfortunately this is not the case
now we're talking about at least 100
medical staff as well as 500 patients uh
many of them are in critical conditions
all the Intensive Care Unit now now have
children who have been bombarded inside
their homes and they are in critical
injuries uh this is along with
14,000 Palestinian civilians inside the
hospital all of them under the threat of
being bombed at any second due to this
Israeli threats Israel occupation forces
and not only say that it
also said either you're going to
evacuate or then the Palestine red
present will hold responsible for the
lives of people inside the hospital
right and just to clarify evacuation
we'll come on to that SEC but just to
just to clarify so we've got 100 medical
staff 500 patients and many of them on
uh life supports in intensive care units
for babies on incubators and so forth
14,000 civilians mostly women and
children all there and can we just
confirm that all those people are still
in the confines of the hospital
yes 14,000 civilians are inside the
hospital they don't have anywhere to go
many of them have already lost their
homes during this intense bombardment
many others they simply don't know where
to go since there is no safe place in
gazda they were unable to evacuate
themselves to the South due to this
intense bombardment that is taking place
all over Gaza and around the clock they
BAS basically don't have transportation
there is no Transportation there is as
well complete destruction of the roads
and infrastructure that's why they only
sought Refugee to the nearest hospital
that what what there was able to do so
they thought they will be in a safey
place but unfortunately this is not the
case because in Gaza there is no
protection for anything although
according to the international
humanitarian law civilians medical
facilities and medical personnel should
be protected according to the
international humanitarian law as we
have seen due to this Israeli threats
this is not the case it seems Israel is
above the international humanitarian law
it's also above all International laws
that's why we call on the International
Community to intervene immediately to
stop the evacuation order against alud
hospital and against all other hospitals
in Gaza Strip you should stand for a he
Humanity thousands of lives is at rest
urgent action should be taken to ensure
the protection of civilians medical
personnel and Medical Teams as well as
all medical facilities according to the
international humanitarian
law let me just come in there a second
let me just come in there a second if a
crime happened it would not be only the
crime of Israel I I can't imagine let me
just jum let me just come in there for a
second and continue threatening our
hospitals no I understand the situation
and I can't at least from AF far but I
can't imagine how it must be for all
those people 14,000 people 500 patients
mostly women and children there how it
is for them not knowing what is about to
happen with the potential for a direct
targeting of the hospital have you
managed to speak to your people at the
hospital and if so what have they said
to you
absolutely many of them they have said
we're going to stay with you because
simply we don't have any other place to
go to could you imagine 14,000 people
civilians most of them children and
women along with elderly people people
with disabilities only lying on the
corridors of the hospital with nothing
they simply have nothing they are
lacking very basic humanitarian need
whether food water or or even anything
they simply share with us the same
facility the same everything trying just
to so um safe shelter for them for
themselves and for children but
unfortunately they are also now under
the threat of being bombed due to
Israeli occupation forces threatening of
bombing alud hospital this is simply
should be not acceptable this is a war
crime hospitals medical personnel uh
civilians should be protected according
to the international humanitarian law
and this International Community should
intervene immediately and save Al's
hospital we appeal to the International
Community we appeal to the world leaders
to stop the evacuation order against al
hospital and all hospitals in Gaza and
save lives of thousands of civilians who
are now under the threat of being bombed
at any second we know this is not only
threats we have witnessed and warned
earlier that Israel is is is going to do
the this threats it happened earlier
with alah hospital we don't want another
Max Maser to be happened at Al hospital
please stop another Max masery to
happened in Al Hospital Nebel we
appreciate your time thank you so much
for talking to us Nebel far from the
Palestine red crescent media and
communication officer there uh we're
monitoring the situation very very
closely of course and uh bring you
updates as when we get it no in the
meantime thanks a
lot